Who had a better night than K-pop demon
hunters? I mean, with all due respect to
Ryan Coogler and Paul Thomas Anderson,
they batted a thousand.
I'm Wesley Morris and this is Cannonball
today. The Academy Awards, they
happened. People won. People lost. And
now I'm going to talk about it with my
friend and the culture editor at the New
York Times Magazine, Sasha Weiss. Hi.
Hi. Uh how are you? Good.
You watched the Oscars.
>> tired. Well, okay.
>> [laughter]
>> I I do watch them. I do watch them every
year, but I watch them with some feeling
of reluctance and ambivalence, which I
know you share too a little bit, the the
ambivalence. Like
I just feel like
the actual films that, you know,
especially this year, we've talked about
this, it was so thrilling and exciting,
but the Oscars themselves are so gamed
and pre-baked and
>> [clears throat]
>> there's just this, you know, like big
importance we attach to this thing that
we all know is kind of a charade of
politics and inner industry politicking
and like we all have to pretend that
it's hugely important. But I know that
you
persist in your belief that it is
important.
>> pretending. Like
>> know. I And like [laughter] every year
I'm like, please remind me why this is
really important.
>> pretend for me. I mean, I think that all
the things you're talking about, the
things that exasperate you are
legitimate. There is a lot of
politicking. There is a lot of
industrial horse race oriented business
that goes on in the
leading up to the show. But I actually
think, I mean, first of all,
you know, as a canon making exercise,
the Academy Awards have always been very
important. Like what winds up happening,
especially in modern times with this
show. Like people
start trying to cram in, especially now
that there are 10 nominees for best
picture, they just cram all the movies
in in like a week. So, I don't know. I
just feel like
the way that it has come to mean
something to everybody just as a like
what should I see exercise is important.
But then there is what it means for the
movies that win to win and for the
movies that lose to lose.
And then there's a third thing at which
is the broadcast itself. I think the
broadcast
>> very much watched.
>> The broadcast,
yes. I mean, and I think I don't know
what the numbers were for this year, but
I feel like I think award shows in
general are
after whatever happens at like political
conventions
and certain sporting events, I feel like
award shows are the single most
important
I call it a crucible, but I mean, it
really is like an x-ray
of what the culture is at any given
moment.
>> But let's like, okay.
As usual, once you start talking about
it, I get more and more interested in it
and
you know, yes, it's an x-ray. Yes, we're
able to see certain things that we might
not not otherwise have seen. So, let's
get into it. Let's get into what
happened last night. Maybe starting with
kind of where the show starts, which is
best supporting actress category. This
year, I mean, you
have talked a lot about like some of the
tensions around the supporting actress
category, right? I mean, there's Teyonah
Taylor
uh playing this kind of explosive role
in One Battle After Another
as a black radical revolutionary
uh and some people like Daphne Brooks
last week on your show were really
skeptical of her portrayal in this movie
and how he kind of used her in this
movie.
Um Like offended by it.
>> Offended by it. And then on the other
hand, we had Wonmi Mosaku in Sinners who
plays this kind of really potent
spiritual kind of in, you know, centered
performance, you know,
uh summoned from her by a black
director.
Um you know, and these two were kind of
contending and and we thought that they
were maybe the top contenders.
But in the end, neither one of them won.
Some white lady
>> [laughter]
>> A great white lady named Amy Madigan uh
wins the supporting actress Oscar. And
you know, she wins for Weapon, she plays
the now notorious Aunt Gladys, which,
you know, I don't know if you were
around on Halloween, but I saw a lot of
Aunt Gladys costumes last Halloween.
Uh I suspect that canonically we will
keep seeing Aunt Gladys costumes.
Um Conan O'Brien opened the show
dressed as Aunt Gladys, but only from
the from the chin up, which was really
funny.
And I think, you know, Amy Madigan
winning was kind of almost preordained
when the movie came out over the summer
of last year.
>> Why? Uh she stole the movie. She is she
is very good. I'm glad she won. Amy
Madigan has been doing this for a long
time. I don't know. So, you're happy
about it.
>> I was fine with it, but it also
>> feel like it kind of side-stepped this
controversy or debate?
>> it's so it does not feel good to say
I think we might have been spared
something here.
>> Hm.
Only in that it just puts the
conversation about at least the Teyonah
Taylor character to rest and for some
people the performance itself. Because
now the contention is more with the film
as a as a complete entity rather than
singling out this one performance for
for praise. But you know, I don't know.
I just feel like Can I ask maybe
annoying question
in in your in your shadow Academy Awards
which you don't actually like giving
out?
Would you have awarded it to Teyonah? If
I'm being honest and my ballot was given
to me the minute I left
One Battle After Another, I probably for
sure would have checked Teyonah Taylor's
name.
Yeah, because
it was thrilling. If you I feel like a
lot of people with this movie saw it
once
and they're still high off the
excitement of having seen it one time.
Um so, I probably would have voted for
Teyonah Taylor if I didn't have time to
think about it. But then once my brain
>> fumes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, for sure.
This is actually a good segue to the
next thing I want to talk about, which
is the casting award, which was an award
you were really excited about and kind
of thrilled that they were creating. I
was curious, how did you like the
presentation of it in the
>> the show?
>> Yeah. Uh I I loved that. I loved that
they had one member of each one cast
member from each of the nominated movies
come out and just sing the praises of
the nominated casting director and talk
about the process by which
in some cases that actor um who did it?
Wagner Moura did it for The Secret
Agent. Chase Infinite did it for One
Battle After Another. Delroy Lindo did
it for Sinners. Paul Mescal did it for
Hamnet. And Gwyneth Paltrow did it for
Marty Supreme. And first of all, just
that array of people on the stage at the
same time is just like
>> the sheer variety of the things that
they're that they're looking for and
seeing.
>> my movie-loving eyes just like my
star-loving eyes well up. Um but also
just the the effusiveness with which
they talked about these people who gave
them these jobs. Because really they
hired these people. Right. [laughter]
Right? Um
>> feel that gratitude. You feel that that
you feel that they're explaining kind of
what it is to feel seen in a very
particular way by these by these people.
>> Also,
you know, the conversation beforehand
was like, you know, I mean, obviously,
who was going to win the category who's
going to win the first ever casting
director award.
And uh the assumption
>> to be Francine Maisler for Sinners,
right?
>> Yes. Uh but only because she's been at
it for so long. But really, I mean,
honestly, there were only two I mean,
for what I the way I consider great
casting, Secret Agent and One Battle
After Another are your winners here.
Because
it's just what I would describe as a
like kitchen sink casting operation.
You know, the top tier of the casting,
which for One Battle After Another is
like, you know, Leonardo DiCaprio and
Benicio Del Toro and
um Sean Penn. But then you've got this
like other layer of, you know, Regina
Hall, Teyonah Taylor, Chase Infinite,
April Grace, all the black women in the
movie Jungle [__] all these black
women in the in the movie that like have
to be correspondent to each other as
well as to the other constituent parts
of the movie. And then you've got this
layer of people you have never seen
before. You know, like uh people who
aren't professional actors, like the
kids in the movie, like the the skate
kids who were called Latino Heat in the
movie.
Um all the military guys who used to do
some kind of like government or security
work um who are playing, you know, the,
you know, terrible bad
military-industrial complex exponents.
So, this like delicate network of
interrelation that you're having to kind
of map as a casting director. It's not
only the person for the part, it's the
person in relation to all of the other
people.
>> Yes. So, Cassandra Kulukundis was out
like scouring
the winner for One Battle After Another
uh was doing that kind of work. And
Secret Agent, which is of these five
movies,
I think it's my personal favorite for
casting, but I mean, it's also my
favorite movie of all of the best
picture nominees, too. Um
that might have been a harder job
because it is so full of people who
don't act professionally.
>> [laughter]
>> You know, there are a lot of people who
do in the movie, but there are a lot a
lot of people with like major things to
do in terms of the operation of the
plot. I mean, and I want to talk more
about The Secret Agent because it was so
um it was a little bit neglected, let's
say.
>> Oh, yeah. It won nothing. It won zero
Oscars. It sounds like you kind of do
think the movie got robbed. Maybe not
Wagner himself. Wagner himself.
>> mean, robbed? I I No, I don't think he
got robbed because I mean well maybe
but robbed is too strong because it's
just I'm surprised it got what it got.
You know how many years a secret agent
is out there in the world and it gets no
Oscar nominations? [laughter]
Do you know what I mean? Like you guys
over here, my favorite movie
has got nothing. So the idea that like
it got as many Oscar nominations as it
did is that's That's satisfying enough.
It shouldn't have won international
feature. It lost to sentimental value,
another movie that I like not as much as
this. I don't know. Prob- probably yes.
Um but I mean you Are we talking about
this? We're talking about snubs?
I watched K-Pop Demon Hunters over the
weekend.
>> Yeah.
>> [laughter]
>> Do you think it got snubbed?
What are we doing? Now look, It got a
lot of attention. What do you mean?
>> who had a better night than K-Pop Demon
Hunters? I mean with all due respect to
Ryan Coogler and Paul Thomas Anderson
and Michael B. Jordan, who had a better
night? They went They batted They batted
a thousand.
It's fantastic.
>> But
Did y'all watch the movie?
>> I love the movie. Did y'all watch the
movie? Like where's the original
screenplay nomination? Where is the best
picture I mean if we're doing it,
where's the best picture nomination?
Because here's what I'll say.
This is a whole movie
about like
a long tradition of people who've been
who've existed as undead and people
who've existed to stop them from
proliferating these undead.
And
if I didn't tell you that I was talking
about K-Pop Demon Hunters,
I could have been talking about
>> [laughter]
>> That's fascinating
like connection you're making. What? Say
more. They're the same movie.
>> HUH.
>> [laughter]
>> I MEAN THEY'RE VERY DIFFERENT but
they're very similar. I mean They all
They begin the same. They have the same
beginning. Won't Bi-Masaku who plays you
know Annie the the hoodoo conjure woman
is essentially laying out this history
of you know I'm going to boil it all the
way down to just the veil, an
African-American
existential psychic life, right? And
what it means to be like be
to have two existences essentially,
right? And then
the beginning of K-Pop Demon Hunters is
unveiling like unfurling this ancient
history of of of of elders and and
ancients using music also, right? Like
music has sort of
been a part of this of this you know
these this these
demons that exist in people and how do
you snuff them out and these people have
been existed to like find the demons and
expunge them and one of the more
ingenious developments in the movie is
the dark forces
come up with the brilliant idea to to
disguise themselves as a K-Pop boy band.
>> [laughter]
>> It's so good. It's so funny. And the
movie means it, right? And I just feel
like there's so many There's so many
great jokes in that film. Anyway, the
point is
fine. It wins best animated feature. It
wins best original song. But like
y'all could have thrown this a best
original screenplay something. Like I
mean
it's just I mean it's more original than
like at least two of the other nominees.
I don't know. I don't know what we're
doing.
>> it that in rewatching K-Pop Demon
Hunters, you're like kind of
you're elevating it into the same
league as Parasite.
>> I just wish maybe it's not unfair.
>> I just I just wish that I had figured
this out months ago.
>> [laughter]
>> Cuz I think it's really deep and I It
also is just so refreshingly light at
the same time. But I mean it it just
works at two different valences. Um
okay, one more snub just to touch on at
least.
Ernie Supreme. Oh. Timothée Chalamet.
Kind of Kind of a rough night.
>> happened to that movie? Like what
happened to the to the to the campaign
around it? Now look, it was never Nobody
was ever talking about it as being
the best picture of last year or
anything but like
it is in something industrial is going
on with this movie to me. I don't know
what it is. Some of it is related to
Timothée Chalamet and you know his PR
antics.
And you know he's just got tired after a
while. Um
>> People liked them at first. I never
liked them. They always sort of made me
uncomfortable.
Um and he he in his in his um
I think that like I love his
professionalism.
I love his adaptability. Like his his
disturbingly chameleon-like adaptability
to all
non-artistic situations, I guess. Like
he's a great guest. He's a great um
co-conspirator in internet-oriented
activity. You know he's kind of a master
at that. But I also think that you know
at the end of the day, this is a very
traditional
operation.
And I don't know what the voters know
about anything this man is doing. I also
think the voting closed
I think the vote I don't know when I
don't know exactly what the over how
many more days were left in the voting
when
when he made those comments about opera
and and and modern ballet and ballet and
opera. You know nobody nobody cares
about these art forms.
So he doesn't want to be in an opera or
ballet. He wants to be in the arena
essentially. Right. I mean whatever.
Everybody's taken their shots at this
man. I I'm not going to bother. Like
it's a dumb thing to say. He probably
the minute he said it. You know how
these things work? You get all heated
up. So his sister and mother called and
bailed.
>> He didn't I'm not going to say he didn't
mean it but it's just one of those
things you say and the minute it's out
there, you're like oh my [__] god.
[__] Cuz you can't take it back cuz
you're Timothée Chalamet. You can't
call.
>> [laughter]
>> There's no publicist in the world that
can make this disappear. So he's just
got to like take his lumps but I think I
don't know. I mean I don't have a lot of
mystery around what happened to Ernie
Supreme. I think it it it suffers a
similar problem as The Secret Agent,
right? Strangeness.
>> Like strangeness. It's got a strange
tone. People went to that movie as you
and I have discussed thinking they were
going to go watch
They were going to watch a Farrelly
brothers movie.
>> [laughter]
>> You know a Marx brothers movie. I don't
know what they thought they were going
to get but they did not get that. They
got something much rougher, rawer, more
violent, more unrelenting in its rawness
and roughness. And he was at the center
of you know he's the the eye of that
storm. And you know honestly
I mean I'm putting Wagner more first in
my ballot but my second choice just
based on the performance, right?
Is probably Timothée Chalamet. That's a
great performance.
There's no argument from least for me.
That is a great piece of acting to me.
And it's such a promise of like what the
next 10 years can look like for this
person.
Um like the things that he can do if the
right parts come along.
Um but I also understand the sort of
dislike of him at the same time, right?
I mean he
I don't know. It seems ad hominem though
because it doesn't have to do with the
work. It has to do with all of the other
stuff and I think the other stuff
has sort of invaded the the the
willingness to tolerate the ambition of
the work. It's kind of a weird cruel
cultural
one-two [snorts] because it's like
you're obligated as an actor to
participate in these press cycles and to
promote yourself and to and like
Timothée Chalamet won that.
>> He's so good at that part of his job.
>> it kind of cursed the art.
>> Well, he went too far, right? Like you
get carried away. He cursed himself, I
think.
>> He cursed himself. Okay, so he doesn't
win.
>> But you know Right. Okay.
>> Wagner doesn't win. No, Wagner Moura
does not win. The
Oscar goes to
>> Michael B. Jordan.
And and you wrote you wrote really
movingly about him about about your kind
of like
journey to a
a slow, not reluctant but kind of like
confused journey to a really
appreciating his performances. I mean
How did you feel when he won? Like I
like like Oh my god, I'm going to cry
right now.
Of just happiness.
Because
>> [laughter]
>> This is becoming a rite. I know. It's
just I'm not going to really really cry
but like
Okay.
There is something I'm just going to
like
Michael B. Jordan is
the kind of movie star that
it's just so easy to overlook what
they're doing as an actor because
the movie star dimension of them is so
strong. And I mean sometimes you are
positively overlooking what they're
doing as an actor cuz it's not very
interesting.
And he never really interested me as an
actor.
But from the beginning of his career,
like I mean the first time I saw him was
probably the first time a lot of us saw
him, which is this Wallace on The Wire.
And
that little boy
>> [laughter]
>> he had something, right?
He [snorts] is just like a like a ball
of feeling, right? LIKE JUST KNOTTED UP,
KNOTTED UP. AND I THINK that the like
the the
whatever it is in him that sort of
coiled up as an actor,
it it frequently needs to be massaged
into a into some sort of relaxation. And
like the parts he's playing, especially
with Ryan Coogler,
they don't
they don't allow for that. You know, I'm
talking, you know, he plays Oscar Grant
in Fruitvale Station. He starts the day
one way and
doesn't make it to the end of the day.
And part of what he's acting is the
frustration of you know, his life in
that moment.
You know, the Creed movies, I mean,
it's very it's it's really interesting
to me that like I am guilty
of going to at least that first Creed
movie and being like, "Man, it's
Stallone."
He really, okay, Stallone.
>> [laughter]
>> I don't remember what I thought about
Michael B. Jordan beyond I got to spend
time at a movie starring Michael B.
Jordan. But like these these
>> But okay, how do you get from this
this feeling
>> Well, this feeling of like of
overlooking of overlooking and like
slight disinterest, right? And and and
feeling that he's coiled up in a way
that you can't access something to like
weeping? I'm not done weeping. I'll get
back to that. But I Well, because you go
back and watch the I mean, well, once he
got the best actor nomination,
I was just kind of like,
"Oh, okay. They did it."
>> [laughter]
>> BUT THEY DID WHAT?
>> THE ACADEMY watched this movie and they
were like, "Oh, Michael B. Jordan,
that's not hard." Um I think people
watch this movie and they were just
like,
>> [laughter]
>> "Huh?"
I mean,
"I hate Marty Supreme. I don't
understand the secret agent. I don't
know what Ethan Hawke is doing in this
movie. And Capriel's won already.
But you know, that Michael B. Jordan,
man, he got me."
I mean, I think it was truly that
simple. And then whoever didn't vote
before the SAG Awards, the now Actor
Awards, that he Michael B. Jordan won
Best Actor at like 2 weeks ago,
that speech was so moving. That moment
was so powerful cuz nobody in the room
saw it coming, you know? And then it
came and you're like, "Oh my god,
I love this person." Viola Davis is the
person who started it, honestly. Where
she just was like,
"I can't believe this is happening!"
And you know, I was on the sofa with
with two friends and I was like, "I
can't believe this is happening!" You
know, it's just So It's an infectious
>> to you though? Like what does it mean to
you in the end? [snorts] Like cuz you're
kind of describing like a process of
elimination and then when everybody else
is eliminated, you feel your feeling
rushes in? Like I think it's more than
that. It's more than that.
>> Well, I mean, on the one hand, it's
math, right? But on the other hand, I
mean, just I don't know what I don't
know what people were thinking when they
actually put his name on the or they,
you know,
chose him.
>> [gasps]
[sighs]
>> But there's a lot going on in this
performance, you know?
And I missed it the first time And the
second and third? and the third time. I
just wasn't watching for him. I was
watching for this movie's ideas cuz
there are a lot of them and they're kind
of inexhaustible.
And the argument that I have with this
movie about should it have done this,
should it have done some other thing,
like what is it what are these
metaphors, like
do I understand this more seeing it a
third time?
The answer is yes, I understand Sinners
a lot more having seen it now four
times.
But the fourth time I watched it, I
watched it just for him.
And
I had never studied Michael B. Jordan in
this way before in any performance. And
you just see that like
Okay, fine. The eyes don't do a lot and
his line readings aren't great. So this
to me is about the soul, right? This is
a soul performance.
And
but this is also a movie about souls,
right? Having one, keeping yours.
And I just kind of missed what his soul
was doing in this movie. Even once one
of his one of the characters he's
playing loses his. And what is it doing?
I mean, connecting
to the
sort of historical environment, to the
to these other people.
I mean, the story of this movie is very
simple, right? Two brothers want to open
a club and then these demons show up.
But you're watching these two brothers
fight to live when they were like
each other's keeper for so long.
>> [snorts]
>> And now Michael B. Jordan has to act
the evil
of this turned brother and the like
heartbreak of what to do about how to
extinguish him.
Like a person that he's been protecting
this whole time, these many years. It is
it is really tough. I mean, and you can
see the devastation on his face, the
difficulty, um the sadness of losing the
child. There is a scene in this movie
where he goes to Annie's
apothecary
um in the woods.
And you know, he's dismissing, you know,
her hoodoo and she's like, "Well,
let me tell you something. How do you
know that any of the root work I did
didn't keep you and your brother alive
up in Chicago where y'all were gangsters
with Al Capone and stuff?"
And he has this moment where like
>> [laughter]
>> It's very fast, but you can see like
four different emotions
settling on his face.
And he says like
with a delivery that I have never heard
from him before, just like,
"Well, why those roots ain't save our
baby?" And it is just Woo!
Woo!
But I missed it the FIRST THREE TIMES.
>> [laughter]
>> UM OKAY, WELL, THIS
gets us to like
the ultimate award.
Can I just say though, real quick, Yeah.
like the thing that felt so good about
him winning is
he doesn't he's got the thing that you
want from a movie star, which is all the
other stuff. You're just rooting for
this man. Mm. And the beautiful thing
about his speech was
he was just like,
"I I I thank y'all for believing in me."
He wasn't talking about the Academy. He
was talking about everybody else, the
audiences, you know? The people who've
been stopping him on the street since he
was on the wire being like, "Yo, man, I
love you." And that is the thing about
Michael B. Jordan,
everybody believes in him.
You know, like there isn't a person that
I have encountered, even the people who
don't think he's a good actor,
they all believe in him. They're all
rooting for him. And that is what that
title emotion was in that room at the
Academy Awards that night. Like it's
just
Yes, of course Michael B. Jordan.
>> [laughter]
>> It just feels good. I'm just rooting for
him even when like I would not have
voted for him myself.
But I'm glad that enough people did that
he went up there and got that Oscar. It
just makes me happy. It just really
makes me happy.
Congratulations, Michael B. Jordan.
>> Amen.
Um but Sinners didn't win.
>> [laughter]
>> And and I'm curious how you ultimately
felt about that. I mean, you know, that
was kind of the the the narrative of the
night. It's it's it's one battle after
another versus Sinners. Two movies that
as you say are in some kind of
conversation with each other.
>> I think you're right. Yeah. It is an
x-ray of the moment.
What does it mean that One Battle was
the ultimate winner? And how did you
feel about that? I feel real heavy about
it.
>> [snorts]
>> I mean, you know, it's funny because if
you had asked me a few years ago how I
feel about Paul Thomas Anderson winning
a bunch of Oscars,
I mean,
cuz he's been nominated for a bunch of
Oscars.
I would have been like, "Yeah.
He is
one of my favorite filmmakers.
I love him. I love his movies.
He's got an imagination. He's got all
this history cinematically that he can
play with, that he has command of. He's
got different modes. I mean, The Phantom
Thread is a wildly different movie from
Boogie Nights, is a wildly different
movie from Licorice Pizza, is a wildly
different movie from
Hard Eight or Inherent Vice, which is my
favorite Paul Thomas Anderson movie.
But you know, I left that film just so
happy, One Battle After Another.
And then
I met the reality of the people in my
life, you know? I I'm friends with a lot
of people who love it more than I do.
But I'm also friends with a lot of
people who who despise it and think it
is
another kind of movie that we have been
being subjected to
for, you know, more than a century.
Um
these images that are really difficult
to take of of black people being
depicted in a certain way,
which is negatively, right? Like in the
case of One Battle After Another, um
sexually explicitly sexually. Um does
the movie work as radical leftist
politics? What are its politics?
Um they're not the politics you think
you're getting, right? It's the implicit
politics. It's the politics that are
upsetting to people, which is they're
all racial. It's not the like free
bodies, free borders, free choices.
It's it's not that. It's this very
ancient
politics about
white men
and black women's bodies.
That's what this movie is about, period.
And does this movie, does Paul Thomas
Anderson's movie really
understand really what it is what it is
[__] with here? You know, it's funny
cuz I had Daphne Brooks on last week to
talk about
the
feminist the black feminist response
movie and and you know, the black
feminist dislike of it, the that
frustration with the appreciation of it,
and their anger toward the movie.
And she brought up Mississippi Burning,
which is a best picture nominee from
uh in the '89 Oscar year.
And Gene Hackman movie, where Gene
Hackman is playing a member like this
Willem Dafoe and Gene Hackman are these
FBI guys who've gone down to
Mississippi, same place Sinner's is set.
And they're trying to figure out who
murdered
the three civil rights workers who were
killed in Mississippi.
And the whole movie
is about Gene Hackman
solving this crime.
And or trying to solve it.
He falls in love with Frances McDormand
who plays this abused wife of of one of
the clan members.
And the whole thing, there's not one
black character in this movie. I can
remember having a great time at
Mississippi Burning.
And about I had it on a cassette with
two other movies. I watched it over and
over and over.
>> Mhm.
And about maybe the [clears throat] 10th
time I watched this movie, cuz it just,
you know, I'd play them in a loop. I was
young. I was 11 years old.
I actually remember asking my mother,
"How come none of the black people are
really talking in this movie about the
civil rights movement?"
>> [snorts]
>> And she's like,
>> [sighs and gasps]
>> "Well, that's just how it normally goes,
honey." Mhm.
That's what usually happens. This is why
and she said to me like, "We're we're
kind of sometimes better off just
watching movies where there are no black
people."
Like meaning white movies.
>> [laughter]
>> Or just black movies, right? And the
point was like once you start involving
our stories and us, things get
unpleasantly complicated because often
the people who are trying to
tell black characters' stories or tell
some story of this country involving,
you know, all kinds of non-white people.
They don't really
know,
you know, this soul work that you need.
Do these casting directors are looking
for people with the souls to populate
these movies? There's something missing.
>> [snorts]
>> And so rather than like make a mistake,
they just
omit.
Or they didn't think it was important to
get the the people part right because
the moral story is correct. So so are
you saying that
One Battle After Another
is making a valiant attempt at some kind
of like serious cinematic integration
that then results in like these
problems?
Yeah. But like I guess what I want to
know is like this
strangeness and something missing and
sort of
stew of of
like shortcomings that enter into a
movie when it when it
you know, kind of goes there. Like
is that a virtue of this movie in a way
or or or is it a failing of the movie?
>> it's both. I think it's both a virtue
and a failing. And I will say that like
in the world of the Academy Awards
>> the movie that won instead of the movie
that is doing soul work in a very
straightforward way or in a very deep
way? I mean, I don't know. There's a
number of ways to answer that. One is
like
they just thought One Battle After
Another was just a better movie, a
better made movie. Just like, you know,
as filmmaking and storytelling. That
forward velocity that you're talking
about, that excitement, that chase
scene. It makes you high, that movie.
>> I mean, it's an x-ray of the present.
Like talk about x-rays. Just just just
speaking right to us right now. For some
people, Sinner's is like old history.
It's old history. It has no no bearing
on the present.
And that to me feels sad, but one of the
things that I love about the Academy
Awards
is that it forces a lot of us
to have these conversations about what
it means
for these movies to not only be
celebrated, but what do they mean as
works of art? Who are they about? What
are they doing?
What what is making me uncomfortable
about this celebration of this movie in
this way? You know, giving Sean Penn the
supporting actor Oscar for playing this
racist man. Like what is
what is this body trying to tell me
about the people who make my movies
and, you know, sometimes depending on
who the winner is, what what this
country is all about. All right, Wesley.
You've done it again. [laughter]
I don't know. Did I Did I
>> me that the Oscars are indeed important.
>> Oh, really important.
>> They're really important. I mean, a lot
came up [laughter] and and will continue
to come up, you know, and it's true.
It's like it's not the end of the
conversation. It's kind of like a way of
of processing and reprocessing the
conversation. So
Thank you. Thank you.
>> [music]
[music]